{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Verdana;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs20 === README.RTF ====================================\par
\par
Alterra Wageningen University & Research Centre\par
\lang1043 Droevendaalsesteeg 3\par
P.O. Box 47\par
NL-6700 AC  Wageningen\par
\lang2057 The Netherlands\par
phone: +31 317 481914\par
\pard{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wageningenur.nl/wofost"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.wageningenur.nl/wofost}}}\f0\fs20\par
Copyright Alterra, Wageningen University & Research Centre, 2014\par
\par
==================================================\par
This file is part of:\par
\par
Program\tab :  Wofost Control Center / WOFOST\par
Version\tab :  2.1 / 7.1.7\par
release date\tab :  February 2014\par
platform \tab :  Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7\par
\par
==================================================\par
For information please contact:\par
\par
Name\tab\tab : Allard de Wit\par
Telephone\tab : +31 317 481914\par
e-mail\tab\tab : allard.dewit@wur.nl\par
\par
==================================================\par
Short product description:\par
\par
Wofost Control Center 2.1 and Wofost 7.1.7:\par
\par
Wofost (WOrld FOod STudies) is a computer model that simulates growth and production of annual field crops. It enables a quantitative estimation of the potential for crop growth under specified soil and weather conditions. Such estimates are the basis for the assessment of options for regional agricultural production, or can be used for the analysis of variability and trends in crop yields.\par
\par
WOFOST is a generic crop growth model. The various versions of the WOFOST model have been developed by C.A. van Diepen, D.W.G. van Kraalingen, C. Rappoldt, G.H.J. de Koning, J. Wolf and H. van Keulen, in co-operation with many of their colleagues at the former Centre for World Food Studies, at the DLO Winand Staring centre (SC-DLO), the DLO Research institute for agrobiology and soil fertility (AB-DLO; former CABO-DLO)), and at the Department of Theoretical Production Ecology of the Wageningen Agricultural University (WAU-TPE).\par
\par
Currently, the WOFOST model is maintained and further developed by Alterra in co-operation with the Plant Production Systems Group of Wageningen University ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wageningenur.nl/en/Expertise-Services/Chair-groups/Plant-Sciences/Plant-Production-Systems-Group.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.wageningenur.nl/en/Expertise-Services/Chair-groups/Plant-Sciences/Plant-Production-Systems-Group.htm}}}\f0\fs20 ) and the Agri4Cast unit of the Joint Research Centre in Italy ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mars.jrc.it/mars/About-us/AGRI4CAST"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://mars.jrc.it/mars/About-us/AGRI4CAST}}}\f0\fs20 ).\par
\par
The Wofost Control Center  is a graphical user interface on top of the Wofost model version 7.1.7.\par
\par
The WCC 2.1 and WOFOST 7.1.7 are described in detail in the User manual:\par
\par
\lang1043 H.L. Boogaard, A.J.W. De Wit, J.A. te Roller, C.A. Van Diepen, 2014. \lang2057 WOFOST Control Centre 2.1 and WOFOST 7.1.7. User\rquote s guide for the WOFOST Control Center 2.1 and WOFOST 7.1.7 crop growth simulation model. Alterra, Wageningen University & Research Centre, Wageningen (Netherlands), 2014\par
\par
==================================================\par
Installation:\par
\par
The WOFOST Control Centre can be installed by running the installer program which will guide you through the setup. Note that WOFOST Control Centre cannot be installed under "Program Files" because it needs read/write access to its folders which is denied in Windows Vista and Windows 7 in the "Program Files" folder. So the best option is to install WOFOST Control Centre under your home folder, even installing on the Desktop works fine.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
The executables (WOFOST Control Center.exe and WOFOST.exe) and the help files will be installed by default in the directory \ldblquote\\WOFOST Control Center\rdblquote . The files for crop, soil and weather data, as well as output files and the configuration files will be stored in subdirectories under \ldblquote\\Wofost Control Center\rdblquote .\par
\par
==================================================\par
Notes:\par
\par
Please note that WCC 2.1 is only tested against the WOFOST 7.1.7 as available as part of WCC. When WCC is used against a modified version, it is at your own risk. However, to enable us to extend the WCC in the way you like, we would appreciate any comments regarding this program.\par
\par
WOFOST 7.1.7 is written in FORTRAN-77 but does not require a compiler as long as modifications to the source code are not necessary. If you want to modify the source code, you must recompile and link WOFOST.\par
\par
==================================================\par
Disclaimer:\par
\par
The suppliers disclaim all warranties for fitness, performance or simulation accuracy for any purpose of the supplied software and/or database. The suppliers assume no liability or responsibility to the users or anyone, for loss or damage caused by errors in, or inadequate use of the supplied software and/or database.\par
\par
==================================================\par
Conditions of use and distribution\par
\par
The copyright holder of WOFOST Control Center 2.1 and WOFOST 7.1.7 is Alterra, Wageningen University & Research Centre. The software can be ordered at the contact addresses (see below) or downloaded from the Wageningen UR website (see above).\par
\par
\pard The source code of the WOFOST 7.1.7 model (in FORTRAN77) can be obtained from the same website and is licensed under the European Union Public License. You can obtain a copy of this license at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/software/page/eupl"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/software/page/eupl}}}\f0\fs20\par
 \par
The EUPL is an open source license and meets the conditions expressed by the Free Software Foundation:\par
\bullet  Freedom to use or run it for any purpose and any number of users;\par
\bullet  Freedom to obtain the Source Code (in order to study how the software works);\par
\bullet  Freedom to share, to redistribute copies of the software;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\bullet  Freedom to modify, adapt, improve the software according to specific needs and to share these modifications.\par
\par
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the EUPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\par
\par
However, although any responsibility for errors and/or updating is declined, you are kindly asked to report any errors or deficiencies. Other information or comments on the use of WOFOST are welcome as well.\par
\par
\lang1043 ==================================================\par
References:\par
\par
H.L. Boogaard, A.J.W. De Wit, J.A. te Roller, C.A. Van Diepen, 2014. \lang2057 WOFOST Control Centre 2.0 and WOFOST 7.1.7. User\rquote s guide for the WOFOST Control Center 2.1 and WOFOST 7.1.7 crop growth simulation model Alterra, Wageningen University & Research Centre, Wageningen (Netherlands), 2014\par
\par
\lang1043 Hijmans, R.J., I.M. Guiking-Lens & C.A. van Diepen. \lang2057 WOFOST, user guide for the WOFOST 6.0 crop growth simulation model. \lang1043 Technical Document 12. SC-DLO, Wageningen. 140 pp.\par
\par
Keulen, H. van, J. Wolf (Eds), 1986. \lang2057 Modelling of agricultural production: weather, soils and crops. \lang1043 Simulation Monographs. Pudoc, Wageningen, 478 pp.\par
\par
Kraalingen, D.W.G. van, 1991. \lang2057 The FSE system for crop simulation. Simulation reports CABO-TT 23. CABO-DLO, WAU-TPE, Wageningen. 77 pp.\par
\par
\lang1043 Rappoldt, C., & D.W.G. van Kraalingen, 1990. \lang2057 Reference manual of the FORTRAN utility library TTUTIL with applications, Simulation reports CABO-TT 20. \lang1043 CABO-DLO, WAU-TPE, Wageningen. 122 pp.\par
\par
Stol, W., D.I. Rouse, D.W.G. van Kraalingen & O. Klepper, 1992. \lang2057 FSEOPT a FORTRAN Program for Calibration and Uncertainty Analysis of Simulation Models. Simulation reports CABO-TT 24. CABO-DLO, WAU-TPE, Wageningen. 24 pp.\par
\par
\lang1043 Supit, I., A.A. Hooijer & C.A. van Diepen, 1994. \lang2057 System description of the WOFOST 6.0 crop growth simulation model. Joint Research Centre, Commision of the European Communities. Brussels, Luxembourg. \par
\par
=== end of README.RTF ===============================\par
\par
}
 